The embeddings map seems to group stories by their text content in clusters of similar topics. Their positions, relative to each other, correlate to their respective topics or content types. For example, the cluster for sports news is on the opposite side of the map from political news. From what I can tell, this is because the embeddings model classifies enough of the words in those articles as "different" from each other that they end up getting mapped far apart.

This is great because of its uses in semantic search, as we've been talking about in class. If you imagine the embeddings map as a dart board (hear me out), you can treat semantically searching for certain stories like throwing a dart into a cluster. For example, if you threw one in the sports cluster (aka searched for something sports-related), all of the stories within the proximity of our "dart"—while not necessarily sharing the same exact keywords—would be semantically similar to each other. The map gives you a way to visualize this.

Seeing the groupings laid out in this manner helps me understand the breadth of topics CNS reports on, but I wouldn't say I understand specific parts of their coverage better. I can infer certain things, but seeing the embeddings this "zoomed out" obviously isn't a substitute for reading their articles. Even just renaming the clusters to be more descriptive would help with this, since the names could correlate to certain events/topics/etc. Also increasing the fidelity of the clusters, so that nuances between stories are separated more clearly, would help improve this as well.
